OSDOCS#6018: Authenticating cert-manager Operator on the AWS STS cluster (#59717)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cert-manager-configure-cloud-credentials-aws-sts.adoc

      - "route53:GetChange"
      effect: Allow
      resource: "arn:aws:route53:::change/*"
    - action:
      - "route53:ChangeResourceRecordSets"
      - "route53:ListResourceRecordSets"
      effect: Allow
      resource: "arn:aws:route53:::hostedzone/*"
    - action:
      - "route53:ListHostedZonesByName"
      effect: Allow
      resource: "*"
  secretRef:
    name: aws-creds
    namespace: cert-manager
  serviceAccountNames:
  - cert-manager
----

. Use the `ccoctl` tool to process `CredentialsRequest` objects by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl aws create-iam-roles \
    --name <user_defined_name> --region=<aws_region> \
    --credentials-requests-dir=<path_to_credrequests_dir> \
    --identity-provider-arn <oidc_provider_arn> --output-dir=<path_to_output_dir>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
2023/05/15 18:10:34 Role arn:aws:iam::XXXXXXXXXXXX:role/<user_defined_name>-cert-manager-aws-creds created
2023/05/15 18:10:34 Saved credentials configuration to: <path_to_output_dir>/manifests/cert-manager-aws-creds-credentials.yaml
2023/05/15 18:10:35 Updated Role policy for Role <user_defined_name>-cert-manager-aws-creds
----
+

> Copy the `<aws_role_arn>` from the output to use in step 7. For example, `"arn:aws:iam::XXXXXXXXXXXX:role/<user_defined_name>-cert-manager-aws-creds"`

Reviewer: I would suggest avoiding step number. Use reference words like previous/following or the action of step 7.

. Add the `eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn="<aws_role_arn>"` annotation to the service account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n cert-manager annotate serviceaccount cert-manager eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn="<aws_role_arn>"
----

. To create a new pod, delete the existing cert-manager controller pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=cert-manager -n cert-manager
----
+

> A new cert-manager controller pod is updated with the AWS credentials after a couple of seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AWS credentials are applied to a new cert-manager controller pod within a couple of seconds.
```
Also reconsider whether `couple of seconds` is required because it's a negligible duration.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-authenticate-aws.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-configure-cloud-credentials-aws-sts"]
= Configuring cloud credentials for the {cert-manager-operator} for the AWS Security Token Service cluster

To configure the cloud credentials for the {cert-manager-operator} on the AWS Security Token Service (STS) cluster you must use the `ccoctl` binary to generate the cloud credentials manually and apply it on the cluster.

.Prerequisites

* You must extract and prepare the `ccoctl` binary.

> * The {cert-manager-operator} 1.11.1 or later is installed.

Reviewer 2: As mentioned here https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/59717#issuecomment-1571773933 yesterday, in AWS STS there are 2 approaches, one using `eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn` annotation which worked already in 1.10.2, so for this approach using `eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn` annotation, need not the per-requisite `The {cert-manager-operator} 1.11.1 or later is installed.`

      - "route53:GetChange"
      effect: Allow
      resource: "arn:aws:route53:::change/*"
    - action:
      - "route53:ChangeResourceRecordSets"
      - "route53:ListResourceRecordSets"
      effect: Allow
      resource: "arn:aws:route53:::hostedzone/*"
    - action:
      - "route53:ListHostedZonesByName"
      effect: Allow
      resource: "*"
  secretRef:
    name: aws-creds
    namespace: cert-manager
  serviceAccountNames:
  - cert-manager
----

. Use the `ccoctl` tool to process `CredentialsRequest` objects by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl aws create-iam-roles \
    --name <user_defined_name> --region=<aws_region> \
    --credentials-requests-dir=<path-to-credrequests-dir> \
    --identity-provider-arn <oidc-provider-arn> --output-dir=<path_to_output_dir>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
2023/05/15 18:10:34 Role arn:aws:iam::XXXXXXXXXXXX:role/<user_defined_name>-cert-manager-aws-creds created
2023/05/15 18:10:34 Saved credentials configuration to: <<path_to_output_dir>>/manifests/cert-manager-aws-creds-credentials.yaml
2023/05/15 18:10:35 Updated Role policy for Role <user_defined_name>-cert-manager-aws-creds
----
+

> Copy the `<aws-arn-id>` from the output to use in step 7. For example, `"arn:aws:iam::XXXXXXXXXXXX:role/<oidc-prefix>-cert-manager-aws-creds"`

Reviewer 2: As mentioned yesterday:
```suggestion
Copy the `<aws-role-arn>` from the output to use in step 7. For example, `"arn:aws:iam::XXXXXXXXXXXX:role/<user_defined_name>-cert-manager-aws-creds"`
```

. Apply the secrets generated in the manifests directory of your cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ls <path_to_output_dir>/manifests/*-credentials.yaml | xargs -I{} oc apply -f {}
----

> 

Reviewer 2: @xenolinux , CC @swghosh , what `ls <path_to_output_dir>/manifests/*-credentials.yaml | xargs -I{} oc apply -f {}` does is: creating an `aws-creds` secret. It is not needed for the approach using `eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn` annotation in AWS STS env, so for the approach using `eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn` annotation, above lines are not needed.

`ls <path_to_output_dir>/manifests/*-credentials.yaml | xargs -I{} oc apply -f {}` is only needed for the approach using CLOUD_CREDENTIALS_SECRET_NAME (which, as raised, for AWS STS env, hit a bug [OCPBUGS-14414](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-14414)).

Reviewer 2: pod identity webhook injects AWS_XXXX env vars. In my test https://polarion.engineering.redhat.com/polarion/#/project/OSE/workitem?id=OCP-62500 , I don't need secret created by `ls <path_to_output_dir>/manifests/*-credentials.yaml | xargs -I{} oc apply -f {}`

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-authenticate-aws.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-configure-cloud-credentials-aws-sts"]
= Configuring cloud credentials for the {cert-manager-operator} for the AWS Security Token Service cluster

> You can configure cloud credentials for the {cert-manager-operator} on the AWS Security Token Service (STS) cluster by using the `ccoctl` binary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to configure the cloud credentials for the {cert-manager-operator} on an AWS Security Token Service (STS) cluster you need to use the `ccoctl` binary to generate the cloud credentials manually and apply it on the cluster.
```

.Prerequisites

* You must extract and prepare the `ccoctl` binary.

.Procedure

> . Create a directory to store the `CredentialsRequest` custom resource (CR) of the {cert-manager-operator} by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Create a directory to store the `CredentialsRequest` custom resource (CR) by running the following command:
```
As CredentialsRequest is not a cert-manager operator specific resource, we should not include the mention of it with the CR.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ mkdir credentials-request
----

. Change the directory by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cd credentials-request
----

. Create a `CredentialsRequest` resource YAML file, for example, `sample-credential-request.yaml`, as follows:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
kind: CredentialsRequest
metadata:
  name: cert-manager
  namespace: openshift-cloud-credential-operator
spec:
  providerSpec:
    apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
    kind: AWSProviderSpec
    statementEntries:
    - action:
      - "route53:GetChange"
      effect: Allow
      resource: "arn:aws:route53:::change/*"
    - action:
      - "route53:ChangeResourceRecordSets"
      - "route53:ListResourceRecordSets"
      effect: Allow
      resource: "arn:aws:route53:::hostedzone/*"
    - action:
      - "route53:ListHostedZonesByName"
      effect: Allow
      resource: "*"
  secretRef:
    name: aws-creds
    namespace: cert-manager
  serviceAccountNames:
  - cert-manager
----

. Create a `CredentialsRequest` resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f sample-credential-request.yaml
----

> . Use the `ccoctl` tool to process `CredentialsRequest` objects of the {cert-manager-operator} by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Use the `ccoctl` tool to process `CredentialsRequest` object(s) by running the following command:
```
Same as above.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl aws create-iam-roles \
    --name <name> --region=<aws_region> \
    --credentials-requests-dir=<path-to-credrequests-dir> \
    --identity-provider-arn <oidc-arn>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
2023/05/15 18:10:34 Role arn:aws:iam::XXXXXXXXXXXX:role/<oidc-prefix>-cert-manager-aws-creds created
2023/05/15 18:10:34 Saved credentials configuration to: <output-dir>/manifests/cert-manager-aws-creds-credentials.yaml
2023/05/15 18:10:35 Updated Role policy for Role <oidc-prefix>-cert-manager-aws-creds
----
+

> Copy the `<aws-arn-id>` from the output to use in step 7.

Reviewer 3: ```
`<aws-arn-id>` (eg. `"arn:aws:iam::XXXXXXXXXXXX:role/<oidc-prefix>-cert-manager-aws-creds"`)
```
maybe we should add an example in the same line?

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n cert-manager annotate serviceaccount cert-manager eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn="<aws-arn-id>"
----

. Add the `eks.amazonaws.com/audience="sts.amazonaws.com"` annotation to the service account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n cert-manager annotate serviceaccount cert-manager eks.amazonaws.com/audience="sts.amazonaws.com"
----

. Add the `eks.amazonaws.com/sts-regional-endpoints="true"` annotation to the service account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n cert-manager annotate serviceaccount cert-manager eks.amazonaws.com/sts-regional-endpoints="true"
----

. Add the `eks.amazonaws.com/token-expiration="86400"` annotation to the service account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n cert-manager annotate serviceaccount cert-manager eks.amazonaws.com/token-expiration="86400"
----

. To create a new pod, delete the existing cert-manager controller pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=cert-manager -n cert-manager
----
+

> A new cert-manager controller pod is updated with the AWS credentials.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A new cert-manager controller pod should be updated with the AWS credentials in a short while.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-authenticate-aws.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-configure-cloud-credentials-aws-sts"]
= Configuring cloud credentials for the {cert-manager-operator} for the AWS Security Token Service cluster

To configure the cloud credentials for the {cert-manager-operator} on the AWS Security Token Service (STS) cluster you must use the `ccoctl` binary to generate the cloud credentials manually and apply it on the cluster.

.Prerequisites

* You must extract and prepare the `ccoctl` binary.

> * The {cert-manager-operator} 1.11.1 or later is installed.

Reviewer 2: Similar as GCP STS https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/59895 , add one more prerequisite about the
```
* You have configured an {product-title} cluster by using a manual mode for the Cloud Credential Operator with AWS STS.
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ mkdir credentials-request
----

. Change the directory by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cd credentials-request
----

. Create a `CredentialsRequest` resource YAML file, for example, `sample-credential-request.yaml`, as follows:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
kind: CredentialsRequest
metadata:
  name: cert-manager
  namespace: openshift-cloud-credential-operator
spec:
  providerSpec:
    apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
    kind: AWSProviderSpec
    statementEntries:
    - action:
      - "route53:GetChange"
      effect: Allow
      resource: "arn:aws:route53:::change/*"
    - action:
      - "route53:ChangeResourceRecordSets"
      - "route53:ListResourceRecordSets"
      effect: Allow
      resource: "arn:aws:route53:::hostedzone/*"
    - action:
      - "route53:ListHostedZonesByName"
      effect: Allow
      resource: "*"
  secretRef:
    name: aws-creds
    namespace: cert-manager
  serviceAccountNames:
  - cert-manager
----

. Create a `CredentialsRequest` resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f sample-credential-request.yaml
----

> 

Reviewer 2: Similar as GCP STS https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/59895 , above manual CredentialsRequest creation for STS cluster is NOT needed.

Reviewer 2: One more thing, then `cd credentials-request` is not needed.

Author: I suppose creating the YAML file under a `credentials-request` directory is not mandatory. To be consistent with other STS/workload identity PRs[1][2][3], I removed the first two steps i.e `mkdir credentials-request` and `cd credentials-request`.
[1]https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/59895
[2]https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/60433
[3]https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/59907

Author: If it is mandatory I will update change accordingly

. Use the `ccoctl` tool to process `CredentialsRequest` objects by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl aws create-iam-roles \

>     --name <name> --region=<aws_region> \
>     --credentials-requests-dir=<path-to-credrequests-dir> \
>     --identity-provider-arn <oidc-arn>
> ----

Reviewer 2: Missing --output-dir.
```suggestion
    --name <user_defined_name> --region=<aws_region> \
    --credentials-requests-dir=<path-to-credrequests-dir> \
    --identity-provider-arn <oidc-arn> --output-dir=<path_to_output_dir>
----
```

+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----

> 2023/05/15 18:10:34 Role arn:aws:iam::XXXXXXXXXXXX:role/<oidc-prefix>-cert-manager-aws-creds created
> 2023/05/15 18:10:34 Saved credentials configuration to: <output-dir>/manifests/cert-manager-aws-creds-credentials.yaml
> 2023/05/15 18:10:35 Updated Role policy for Role <oidc-prefix>-cert-manager-aws-creds

Reviewer 2: Some incorrect:
The prefix is the <user_defined_name> instead of <oidc-prefix>
```suggestion
2023/05/15 18:10:34 Role arn:aws:iam::XXXXXXXXXXXX:role/<user_defined_name>-cert-manager-aws-creds created
2023/05/15 18:10:34 Saved credentials configuration to: <<path_to_output_dir>>/manifests/cert-manager-aws-creds-credentials.yaml
2023/05/15 18:10:35 Updated Role policy for Role <user_defined_name>-cert-manager-aws-creds
```

----
+
Copy the `<aws-arn-id>` from the output to use in step 7. For example, `"arn:aws:iam::XXXXXXXXXXXX:role/<oidc-prefix>-cert-manager-aws-creds"`

. Apply the secrets generated in the manifests directory of your cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ ls manifests/*-credentials.yaml | xargs -I{} oc apply -f {}

Reviewer 2: Incorrect path here. Similar to https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/59895 :
```suggestion
$ ls <path_to_output_dir>/manifests/*-credentials.yaml | xargs -I{} oc apply -f {}
```

----

> . Add the `eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn="<aws-arn-id>"` annotation to the service account by running the following command:
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ oc -n cert-manager annotate serviceaccount cert-manager eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn="<aws-arn-id>"

Reviewer 2: For arn aka Amazon Resource Names, did not hear of calling "arn id". You can call "aws <resource> arn" or arn of \<resource> where resource is role.
```suggestion
. Add the `eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn="<aws-role-arn>"` annotation to the service account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n cert-manager annotate serviceaccount cert-manager eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn="<aws-role-arn>"
```

Same for above "Copy the \`\<aws-arn-id>`"

----

. Add the `eks.amazonaws.com/audience="sts.amazonaws.com"` annotation to the service account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n cert-manager annotate serviceaccount cert-manager eks.amazonaws.com/audience="sts.amazonaws.com"
----

. Add the `eks.amazonaws.com/sts-regional-endpoints="true"` annotation to the service account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n cert-manager annotate serviceaccount cert-manager eks.amazonaws.com/sts-regional-endpoints="true"
----

. Add the `eks.amazonaws.com/token-expiration="86400"` annotation to the service account by running the following command:

> +

Reviewer 2: These are not required.

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n cert-manager annotate serviceaccount cert-manager eks.amazonaws.com/token-expiration="86400"
----

> 

Reviewer 2: These are not required.

. To create a new pod, delete the existing cert-manager controller pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=cert-manager -n cert-manager
----
+

> A new cert-manager controller pod must be updated with the AWS credentials after a couple of seconds.

Reviewer 2: `must` seems to mean that users must take action to update. But it is auto updated.
```suggestion
A new cert-manager controller pod will be updated with the AWS credentials after a couple of seconds.
```

.Verification

> . Get the name of a cert-manager controller pod by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Get the name of the updated cert-manager controller pod by running the following command:
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-authenticate-aws.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-configure-cloud-credentials-aws-sts"]
= Configuring the {cert-manager-operator} to use prepared cloud credentials

You can configure the {cert-manager-operator} to use prepared cloud credentials on AWS Security Token Service cluster by using the `ccoctl` binary.

.Prerequisites

* You must extract and prepare the `ccoctl` binary.

.Procedure

. The {cert-manager-operator} creates the `CredentialsRequest` object in the `openshift-cloud-credential-operator` namespace. Get the role by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get credentialsrequest -n openshift-cloud-credential-operator -o yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
arn:aws:iam::<AWS-account-id>:role/abcd-cert-manager
----

. Annotate the service account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc annotate sa/cert-manager -n cert-manager eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn="arn:aws:iam::<AWS-account-id>:role/abcd-cert-manager"

Reviewer 3: Let's add the three other annotations in more steps as well.
Please refer to step 4 from https://github.com/openshift/cert-manager-operator/blob/master/docs/cloud_credentials.md#aws (for the other 3 annotations prescribed in https://github.com/openshift/aws-pod-identity-webhook#eks-walkthrough)
